well let's bring in Bill McCarron he's
the Press Freedom Advocate at the
national Press Club he joins us now from
Washington DC bill it feels like that
was a pretty quick turnaround by the
Israelis not something you see often do
you have a sense of what the White House
might have said to make this
happen uh yes well there was reporting
that the White House was uh upset about
this and had had conversations asking
for a reversal um and I don't know that
the the people weren't quoted for the
story they were just unnamed sources but
I do believe there was communication and
there was pressure and um this this felt
uh chaotic on the part of Israel the
policy such as it is is new and I I
don't think they're all on the same page
about how it's supposed to be
implemented but we were bitterly
disappointed uh to to see that they had
um gone this far with the Associated
Press and the reasons were
um you know not up to the to the problem
so we were glad there was a quick
reversal but just just as the AP says we
are concerned about what this means well
the AP is also an American institution
of sorts can you perhaps give a viewers
a sense of where the Associated Press
sits within the the psyche of the United
States because of all the agencies to
crack down on and a number of them have
live feeds of Gaza it seems strange that
Israel chose this one
yes um the AP is in every Newsroom in
the United States of any size uh much of
what's made up of a newspaper or um a
broadcast is material that on some level
uh is produced by the Associated Press
uh and on the TV side the AP is very big
world around so it makes video products
out of the United States that are used
and and and other places like Israel
that are used uh by global news
organizations around the world um a AP
is one of the leaders uh in our field
they are a Cooperative so that means
their board is made up of uh 30 News
organizations they are the largest for
the most part news organizations in the
country uh it is it is messing with
something that's a significant
institution and tradition when you are
messing with the Associated Press so we
were very
well the AP is also saying that Israel
accused it of providing a feed to us to
Al jazer but it is an agency that's what
it does we also get feeds from a number
of agencies does this have implications
for
them uh well I don't know about that I
you know I'd hope that a lesson was
learned today about how to exercise this
this policy it's one thing to create a
policy but that's another to see how
it's implemented and um you know we saw
how it was implemented with alir Al
jazer just recently in Israel and um you
know that was also surprising to us and
we spoke out against it I I think it's
possible that we might have some fits
and starts here you know as this is
going on but um I I I did read in the
stories that it uh and I heard from
others that it seemed that the feed
being provided to Al jazer was a major
uh a major part of this um
uh however yes as you as you point out
AP is an agency they do serve their
customers they have
contracts and this is an important feed
for them to be able to uh provide not
just to Al jazer but to lots of other
news organizations of course Bill we did
see some domestic push back on on the
choice to to seize ap's equipment today
and I'm wondering whether you sense that
there might be a bit of push back more
broadly from the Israeli media if if
Israeli media organizations are feeling
like they might be under
threat I really think you've uh hit on
an important point there I do think that
the pressure uh on the Israeli media
maybe pressure is not the right word but
the responsibility to cover what's
happening in Gaza more fully now than
ever uh as there is is more and more uh
limit put on what others can produce uh
is G it's extremely important now that
the Israeli media stand up and cover
this in an aggressive and a complete way
and I know they are concerned as well I
think they are concerned about their own
uh freedom to publish uh yet I do think
uh part of this is
for um internal consumption in a way
that uh they want to make sure that um
what Israeli citizens are seeing reading
hearing uh reports to what they to their
strategy and I think this is where the
Israeli press must be independent and
and I I would be looking forward to
seeing what they write in editorials and
other kind of Publications about uh just
what happened today it will be
interesting indeed we'll be keeping an
eye on that bill McCarron a press
Freedom Advocate at the national Press
Club speaking to us from Washington DC
thank you so much for your time with us
again on Al jazer Bill thank you for
having
me make sure to subscribe to our channel
to get the latest news from alaz